OSDOCS-12592# Docs for vSphere host groups day 1 IPI (#92848)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/configuring-vsphere-host-groups.adoc

----

. Use zone tags to associate each ESXi host with its host group. Enter the following command for each ESXi host:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ govc tags.attach -c <zone_tag_category> <zone_tag_for_host_group_1> /<datacenter_1>/host/<cluster_1>/<esxi_host_in_host_group_1>
----

. Change to the directory that contains the installation program and initialize the cluster deployment according to your chosen installation requirements.

.Sample `install-config.yaml` file with multiple host groups

[source,yaml]
----
---
featureSet: TechPreviewNoUpgrade
featureGate:
  - "VSphereHostVMGroupZonal=true"
---
platform:
  vsphere:
    vcenters:
---
    datacenters:
      - <data_center_1_name>
    failureDomains:
    - name: <host_group_1>
      region: <cluster_1_region_tag>
      zone: <host_group_1_zone_tag>
      server: <fully_qualified_domain_name>
      topology:
        datacenter: <data_center_1>
        computeCluster: "/<data_center_1>/host/<cluster1>"
        networks:
        - <VM_Network1_name>
        datastore: "/<data_center_1>/datastore/<datastore1>"
        resourcePool: "/<data_center_1>/host/<cluster1>/Resources/<resourcePool1>"

>         folder: "/<data_center_1>/vm/<folder1>"

Reviewer: I think `regionType` `zoneType` and `topology.hostGroup` are required here, pls see following example

```
    failureDomains:
    - name: sgao-host1-zone
      zone: "sgao-host1-zone"
      region: "sgao-cluster-region"
      regionType: "ComputeCluster"
      zoneType: "HostGroup"
      server: vcenternested.devqe.ibmc.devcluster.openshift.com
      topology:
        computeCluster: /nesteddatacenter/host/nestedcluster
        datacenter: nesteddatacenter
        datastore: /nesteddatacenter/datastore/Datastore-host1
        networks:
        - nested-devqe-segment-222
        hostGroup: sgao-host1-zone
```

Author: @sgaoshang I've pushed your suggested changes.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
//* /installing/installing_vsphere/ipi/installing-vsphere-installer-provisioned-customizations.adoc
//* /installing/installing_vsphere/ipi/installing-vsphere-installer-provisioned-network-customizations.adoc
//* /installing/installing_vsphere/ipi/installing-restricted-networks-installer-provisioned-vsphere.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="configuring-vsphere-host-groups_{context}"]
= Configuring host groups for a VMware vCenter

:FeatureName: Openshift zones support for vSphere host groups 
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

You can modify the default installation configuration file to deploy an {product-title} cluster on a {vmw-first} stretched cluster, where ESXi hosts are grouped into host groups by physical location.

> The default `install-config.yaml` file configuration previous releases of {product-title} is deprecated. Though you can still use it, the {product-title} installer will display a warning message that indicates the use of deprecated fields in the configuration file.

Author: Fixed.

----

. Attach the region tag to the vCenter cluster object by entering the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ govc tags.attach -c <region_tag_category> <region_tag_1> /<datacenter_1>/host/<cluster_1>
----

. Use zone tags to associate each ESXi host with its host group, by entering the following command for each ESXi host:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ govc tags.attach -c <zone_tag_category> <zone_tag_for_host_group_1> /<datacenter_1>/host/<cluster_1>/<esxi_host_in_host_group_1>
----

. Change to the directory that contains the installation program and initialize the cluster deployment according to your chosen installation requirements.

.Sample `install-config.yaml` file with multiple host groups

[source,yaml]
----
featureSet: TechPreviewNoUpgrade
featureGate:
  - "VSphereHostVMGroupZonal=true"
# ...
platform:
  vsphere:
    vcenters:
# ...
    datacenters:
      - <data_center_1_name>
    failureDomains:
    - name: <host_group_1>
      region: <cluster_1_region_tag>
      zone: <host_group_1_zone_tag>
      regionType: "ComputeCluster"
      zoneType: "HostGroup"
      server: <fully_qualified_domain_name>
      topology:
        datacenter: <data_center_1>

>         computeCluster: "/<data_center_1>/host/<cluster1>"

Author: Fixed.

        networks:
        - <VM_Network1_name>
        hostGroup: <host_group_1_name>
        datastore: "/<data_center_1>/datastore/<datastore_1>"
        resourcePool: "/<data_center_1>/host/<cluster_1>/Resources/<resourcePool_1>"

>         folder: "/<data_center_1>/vm/<folder1>"

Author: Fixed.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
//* /installing/installing_vsphere/ipi/installing-vsphere-installer-provisioned-customizations.adoc
//* /installing/installing_vsphere/ipi/installing-vsphere-installer-provisioned-network-customizations.adoc
//* /installing/installing_vsphere/ipi/installing-restricted-networks-installer-provisioned-vsphere.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="configuring-vsphere-host-groups_{context}"]
= Configuring host groups for a VMware vCenter

:FeatureName: Openshift zones support for vSphere host groups 
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

You can modify the default installation configuration file to deploy an {product-title} cluster on a vSphere stretched cluster, with ESXi hosts and storage distributed across multiple physical datacenters.

> The default `install-config.yaml` file configuration from the previous release of {product-title} is deprecated. Though you can still use it, the openshift-installer will display a warning message that indicates the use of deprecated fields in the configuration file.

Reviewer 2: I don't see any uses of _openshift-installer_ in the docs after a quick Atom search. 
```suggestion
The default `install-config.yaml` file configuration from the previous release of {product-title} is deprecated. Though you can still use it, the {product-title} installer displays a warning message that indicates the use of deprecated fields in the configuration file.
```

[IMPORTANT]
====
The example uses the `govc` command. This open-source tool is available from VMware, not Red Hat, and is not maintained by the Red{nbsp}Hat support team. Instructions for downloading and installing it are found on the VMware documentation website.
====

> .Prerequisites

Author: Added suggested change.

* You have an existing `install-config.yaml` installation configuration file.
* You have arranged your ESXi hosts into host groups.
* You have granted the `Host.Inventory.EditCluster` privilege on the vSphere vCenter cluster object.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
To enable host group support, you must define multiple failure domains for your {product-title} cluster.
====

.Procedure

. Enter the following `govc` command-line tool commands to create the `openshift-region` and `openshift-zone` vCenter tag categories:
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
If you specify different names for the `openshift-region` and `openshift-zone` vCenter tag categories, the installation of the {product-title} cluster fails.
====

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ govc tags.category.create -d "OpenShift region" openshift-region
----
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ govc tags.category.create -d "OpenShift zone" openshift-zone
----

> . To create a region tag for the vSphere cluster where you want to deploy your {product-title} cluster, enter the following command in your terminal:

Author: Added suggested change.

> . To create a region tag for the vSphere cluster where you want to deploy your {product-title} cluster, enter the following command in your terminal:

Author: Added suggested change.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ govc tags.create -c <region_tag_category> <region_tag>
----

> . To create a zone tag for each host group, enter the following command:

Author: Added suggested change.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ govc tags.create -c <zone_tag_category> <zone_tag>
----

. Attach the region tag to the vCenter cluster object by entering the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ govc tags.attach -c <region_tag_category> <region_tag_1> /<datacenter_1>/host/<cluster_1>
----

> . Use zone tags to associate each ESXi host with its host group. Enter the following command for each ESXi host:

Author: Added suggested change.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ govc tags.attach -c <zone_tag_category> <zone_tag_for_host_group_1> /<datacenter_1>/host/<cluster_1>/<esxi_host_in_host_group_1>
----

. Change to the directory that contains the installation program and initialize the cluster deployment according to your chosen installation requirements.

.Sample `install-config.yaml` file with multiple host groups

[source,yaml]
----
featureSet: TechPreviewNoUpgrade
featureGate:
  - "VSphereHostVMGroupZonal=true"
# ...
platform:
  vsphere:
    vcenters:
# ...
    datacenters:
      - <data_center_1_name>
    failureDomains:
    - name: <host_group_1>
      region: <cluster_1_region_tag>
      zone: <host_group_1_zone_tag>
      regionType: "ComputeCluster"
      zoneType: "HostGroup"
      server: <fully_qualified_domain_name>
      topology:
        datacenter: <data_center_1>
        computeCluster: "/<data_center_1>/host/<cluster1>"
        networks:
        - <VM_Network1_name>
        hostGroup: <host_group_1_name>
        datastore: "/<data_center_1>/datastore/<datastore1>"

>         resourcePool: "/<data_center_1>/host/<cluster1>/Resources/<resourcePool1>"

Author: Corrected all instances.

[IMPORTANT]
====
The example uses the `govc` command. The `govc` command is an open source command available from VMware; it is not available from Red Hat. The Red Hat support team does not maintain the `govc` command. Instructions for downloading and installing `govc` are found on the VMware documentation website.
====

.Prerequisites
* You have an existing `install-config.yaml` installation configuration file.
* Your ESXi hosts are arranged into host groups. 
* You have granted the `Host.Inventory.EditCluster` privilege on the vSphere vCenter Cluster object.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
To enable host group support, you must define multiple failure domains for your {product-title} cluster.
====

.Procedure

. Enter the following `govc` command-line tool commands to create the `openshift-region` and `openshift-zone` vCenter tag categories:
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
If you specify different names for the `openshift-region` and `openshift-zone` vCenter tag categories, the installation of the {product-title} cluster fails.
====

> +

Reviewer 2: @GroceryBoyJr What does the carriage return here do?
